Yo (greeting)

Article
Talk
Read
Edit
View history

Tools
Checked
Page protected with pending changes
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Yo (/joʊ/ YOH) is a slang interjection,[1] commonly associated with North American English. It was popularized by the Italian-American community in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, in the 1940s.[2]

Although often used as a greeting and often deployed at the beginning of a sentence, yo may also come at the end of a sentence and/or may be used to place emphasis on or to direct focus onto a particular individual, group, or issue at hand, or to gain the attention of another individual or group. It may also be used to express excitement, surprise, disbelief, enthusiasm, anger, or amazement.

Etymology and history
The interjection yo was first used in Middle English.[3][4] In addition to yo, it was also sometimes written io.[5]

Though the term may have been in use in an isolated manner in different contexts earlier in English, its current usage and popularity derives from its use in Philadelphia's Italian American population in the twentieth century, which spread to other ethnic groups in the city, notably among Philadelphia African Americans, and later spread beyond Philadelphia.[6]

From the late twentieth century, it frequently appeared in hip hop music and became associated with African American Vernacular English, as seen in the title Yo! MTV Raps, a popular American television hip-hop music program in the late 1980s.

Other uses

Look up yo (greeting) in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.
In Baltimore, and possibly other cities, yo (or a word coincidentally identical to it) has become a gender-neutral pronoun.[7]
References
 "Yo - Define Yo at Dictionary.com". Dictionary.com. Retrieved November 7, 2014.
 Dalzell, Tom (1996). Flappers 2 Rappers: American Youth Slang. Springfield, Massachusetts: Merriam Webster. p. 185. ISBN 0-87779-612-2.
 "yo: definition of yo in Oxford dictionary (British & World English)". Archived from the original on November 13, 2013. Retrieved November 7, 2014.
 Harper, Douglas. "yo (interjection) etymological definition". Online Etymology Dictionary. Mr Douglas Harper. Retrieved April 20, 2016.
 Yo, Merriam-Webster's Collegiate Dictionary
 Dalzell, Tom (1996). Flappers 2 Rappers: American Youth Slang. Springfield, Massachusetts: Merriam Webster. p. 177. ISBN 0-87779-612-2.
 "Language Log". Retrieved November 7, 2014.
Categories: 1990s slangAfrican-American slangAmerican slangCulture of PhiladelphiaGreeting words and phrasesInterjectionsItalian-American historyItalian-American cultureEnglish wordsHip-hop terminology